---
layout: post
title: "http1.1 and http1.0"
category: linux
tags: [http, proxy]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

在学习squid的时候，里面强调了squid使用的是http1.0的协议。[stackoverflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/246859/http-1-0-vs-1-1)中解析的http1.1和1.0比较明了，记录一下。

{% highlight bash %}
Proxy support and the Host field:

HTTP 1.1 has a required Host header by spec.

HTTP 1.0 does not officially require a Host header, but it doesn't hurt to add one, and many applications (proxies) expect to see the Host header regardless of the protocol version.

Example:

GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: www.blahblahblahblah.com
This header is useful because it allows you to route a message through proxy servers, and also because your a web server can distinguish between different sites on the same server.

So this means if you have blahblahlbah.com and helohelohelo.com both pointing to the same IP. Your web server can use the Host field to distinguish which site the client machine wants.

Persistent connections:

HTTP 1.1 also allows you to have persistent connections which means that you can have more than one request/response on the same HTTP connection.

In HTTP 1.0 you had to open a new connection for each request/response pair. And after each response the connection would be closed. This lead to some big efficiency problems because of TCP Slow Start.

OPTIONS method:

HTTP/1.1 introduces the OPTIONS method. An HTTP client can use this method to determine the abilities of the HTTP server. It's mostly used for Cross Origin Resource Sharing in web applications.

Caching:

HTTP 1.0 had support for caching via the header: If-Modified-Since.

HTTP 1.1 expands on the caching support a lot by using something called 'entity tag'. If 2 resources are the same, then they will have the same entity tags.

HTTP 1.1 also adds the If-Unmodified-Since, If-Match, If-None-Match conditional headers.

There are also further additions relating to caching like the Cache-Control header.

100 Continue status:

There is a new return code in HTTP/1.1 100 Continue. This is to prevent a client from sending a large request when that client is not even sure if the server can process the request, or is authorized to process the request. In this case the client sends only the headers, and the server will tell the client 100 Continue, go ahead with the body.

Much more:

Digest authentication and proxy authentication
Extra new status codes
Chunked transfer encoding
Connection header
Enhanced compression support
Much much more.

{% endhighlight %}
